LEaving Twitter - Blog post draft in Spanish (#581)
ropensci/roweb3: content/blog/2023-06-09-communication/index.md

---
slug: "ropensci-communication-channels-en"
title: "rOpenSci's communication channels for safe and friendly exchange"
author:
  - Yanina Bellini Saibene
date: '2023-06-09'
tags:
  - community
featured: true
description: "Communication channels announcement. rOpenSci stop interacting on Twitter."
---

> As [we anticipated in November 2022](/en/blog/2022/11/16/mastodon-en) the changes implemented in Twitter have generated a less safe and friendly space for our community.  That is why from _June 2023_, we will stop interacting on that platform.  
> We will only perform the necessary tasks so that the account is not deactivated and can't be supplanted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As [we anticipated in November 2022](/en/blog/2022/11/16/mastodon-en) the changes implemented by Twitter have generated a less safe and friendly space for our community.  That is why from _June 2023_, we will stop interacting on this platform. We will maintain the account in hopes that we can return when Twitter is once again a safe and supportive space, but in the meanwhile will focus our communication efforts elsewhere.
```

We understand that until now Twitter has been one of the reference platforms for the R community, data, research and open science community but we have to be responsible and 
coherent with the spaces we choose for exchange and interaction and [our values as a community](/en/code-of-conduct/) and [organization](/about/).

> We have been working to offer other meeting points that allow us to work in a _welcoming and diverse community_.  

Reviewer: If we update the contributing guide [communication channels section](https://contributing.ropensci.org/resources.html#channels) at the same time, I think this would also be a good place to link to that. Linking to the guide somewhere in this post would be a good idea, I think.

```suggestion
However, there are many online spaces which can be used by our community and we have been working to develop spaces that allow us to promote a _welcoming and diverse community_.

Here we outline the different communication channels of rOpenSci. Remember that you can always visit the [Contributing Guide](https://contributing.ropensci.org/resources.html#channels) for a more in depth exploration of how you can be involved in the rOpenSci community and what that can do for you!

As always, in all of our spaces and communication channels, we are committed to ensuring safe, accessible, open, diverse and friendly spaces. See our [code of conduct](https://ropensci.org/code-of-conduct/) for more details.
```

> The building and consolidation of these spaces, take time and need the collaboration of the whole community to make them grow. 
> That's why we share with you all rOpenSci's communication channels so that you can use the one that best suits your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ## rOpenSci in Mastodon

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Mastodon
```

> It is [the platform to which we migrated in November](https://hachyderm.io/@rOpenSci) and to which a large number of friends communities and members of our community have also migrated to. 
> After exploring different instances, we selected one that is aligned with our mission and that allows us to communicate in several languages. We also [developed tools to share our content](/blog/2023/05/17/scheduling-mastodon/) there. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[We joined Mastodon in November](https://hachyderm.io/@rOpenSci) along with a large number of friend communities and members of our community.
After exploring different instances, we selected one that is aligned with our mission and that allows us to communicate in several languages. We also [developed tools to share our content](/blog/2023/05/17/scheduling-mastodon/) there. 
```

> 

Reviewer: Worth mentioning? 
```suggestion

## LinkedIn

[Our presence](https://www.linkedin.com/company/ropensci/) on LinkedIn is relatively new for us, but we're excited to see what it has to offer. We'll be developing our presence there over the next few months.

```

Reviewer: Makes perfect sense! Once we've got it figured out we can add it to the Contributing guide as well

> ## The rOpenSci Newsletter and Blog

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Newsletter and Blog
```

[Our monthly newsletter](/news/) is a permanent update on the most important news and the development of our projects, you can subscribe to receive it in your email. 
In our blog you will find articles, technical notes, interviews and updates. 

> You can read it from the web, receive it with the newsletter or consume it from [the RSS feed](/rbloggers/index.xml).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can read it on the web, receive a digest via the newsletter, or subscribe to our [RSS feed](/rbloggers/index.xml).
```

## Discussion forum 

> Exchanges are always enriching for our work and it is in these spaces where new challenges and ideas arise. You can join our [discussion forum](https://discuss.ropensci.org/). Learn more about [how you can interact in this space](/blog/2022/01/11/ropensci-forum/). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Exchanges are always enriching for our work and it is in these spaces where new challenges and ideas arise. Join us in the [discussion forum](https://discuss.ropensci.org/), and learn more about [how you can interact in this space](/blog/2022/01/11/ropensci-forum/). 
```

## Events

> The [community calls](/commcalls/), our [working sessions](/events/) and our [participation in events and conferences](/talks/) are other spaces to interact with other community members and the rOpenSci team.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Community calls](/commcalls/), our [coworking sessions](/events/) and our [participation in events and conferences](/talks/) are other spaces where you can interact with other community members and the rOpenSci team.  
```

Check our calendar (or read the newsletter) to find out when and where they are happening. 

> In all of our spaces and communication channels, we are committed to ensuring safe, accessible, open, diverse and friendly spaces.  
> Our [code of conduct](https://ropensci.org/code-of-conduct/) applies to all of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 
> If you have any questions, comments or suggestions you can write us at write us at info@ropensci.org. Also, you can suggest which channels we can join to continue sharing our contents. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

So while things change, we hope you are able to continue to join us in new and fun online spaces, and that we can continue to support each other in on our journeys to open and reproducible science!

If you have any questions, comments or suggestions you can write us at write us at info@ropensci.org. Also, we'd love to hear of other channels you might suggest we explore.
```

---
slug: "ropensci-communication-channels-en"

> title: "rOpenSci's communication channels for safe and friendly exchange"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "rOpenSci's Communication Channels for Safe and Friendly Exchange"
```

author:
  - Yanina Bellini Saibene

> date: '2023-06-09'

Reviewer: Reminder for date :grin:

tags:
  - community
featured: true
description: "Communication channels announcement. rOpenSci stop interacting on Twitter."
---

> As [we anticipated in November 2022](/en/blog/2022/11/16/mastodon-en) the changes implemented by Twitter have generated a less safe and friendly space for our community.  That is why from _June 2023_, we will stop interacting on this platform. We will maintain the account in hopes that we can return when Twitter is once again a safe and supportive space, but in the meanwhile will focus our communication efforts elsewhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As [we anticipated in November 2022](/blog/2022/11/16/mastodon-en) the changes implemented by Twitter have generated a less safe and friendly space for our community.  That is why from _June 2023_, we will stop interacting on this platform. We will maintain the account in hopes that we can return when Twitter is once again a safe and supportive space, but in the meanwhile will focus our communication efforts elsewhere.
```

We understand that until now Twitter has been one of the reference platforms for the R community, data, research and open science community but we have to be responsible and 

> coherent with the spaces we choose for exchange and interaction and [our values as a community](/en/code-of-conduct/) and [organization](/about/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
coherent with the spaces we choose for exchange and interaction and [our values as a community](/code-of-conduct/) and [organization](/about/).
```

> However, there are many online spaces which can be used by our community and we have been working to develop spaces that allow us to promote a _welcoming and diverse community_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, there are many other online spaces which can be used by our community and we have been working to develop our presence on platforms which allow us to promote a _welcoming and diverse community_.
```

Here we outline the different communication channels of rOpenSci. Remember that you can always visit the [Contributing Guide](https://contributing.ropensci.org/resources.html#channels) for a more in depth exploration of how you can be involved in the rOpenSci community and what that can do for you!

> As always, in all of our spaces and communication channels, we are committed to ensuring safe, accessible, open, diverse and friendly spaces. See our [code of conduct](https://ropensci.org/code-of-conduct/) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As always, in all of our spaces and communication channels, we are committed to ensuring safe, accessible, open, diverse and friendly spaces. See our [code of conduct](/code-of-conduct/) for more details.
```

## Mastodon

[We joined Mastodon in November](https://hachyderm.io/@rOpenSci) along with a large number of friend communities and members of our community.
After exploring different instances, we selected one that is aligned with our mission and that allows us to communicate in several languages. We also [developed tools to share our content](/blog/2023/05/17/scheduling-mastodon/) there. 

## Newsletter and Blog

> [Our monthly newsletter](/news/) is a permanent update on the most important news and the development of our projects, you can subscribe to receive it in your email. 
> In our blog you will find articles, technical notes, interviews and updates. 
> You can read it on the web, receive a digest via the newsletter, or subscribe to our [RSS feed](/rbloggers/index.xml).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Our monthly newsletter](/news/) is a permanent update on the most important news and project developments. You can subscribe via email or read it on the blog. 
On our blog you will also find articles, technical notes, interviews and updates. 
You can read it on the web, receive a digest via the newsletter, or subscribe to our [RSS feed](/rbloggers/index.xml).
```

## Discussion forum 

Exchanges are always enriching for our work and it is in these spaces where new challenges and ideas arise. Join us in the [discussion forum](https://discuss.ropensci.org/), and learn more about [how you can interact in this space](/blog/2022/01/11/ropensci-forum/). 

## Events

[Community calls](/commcalls/), our [coworking sessions](/events/) and our [participation in events and conferences](/talks/) are other spaces where you can interact with other community members and the rOpenSci team.  
Check our calendar (or read the newsletter) to find out when and where they are happening. 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## See you around!
```

> So while things change, we hope you are able to continue to join us in new and fun online spaces, and that we can continue to support each other in on our journeys to open and reproducible science!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So while things change, we hope you are able to continue to join us in new and fun online spaces, and that we can continue to support each other along our journeys to open and reproducible science!
```

> If you have any questions, comments or suggestions you can write us at write us at info@ropensci.org. Also, we'd love to hear of other channels you might suggest we explore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have any questions, comments or suggestions you can write us at info@ropensci.org. Also, we'd love to hear of other channels you think we should explore.
```
